[ready for review] New open research articles chapter (#2353)
alan-turing-institute/the-turing-way: book/website/communication/dif-articles.md

| {ref}`Data Articles<rr-rdm-article>` | Helpful | Beginner | Gives an overview of where to publish data articles |
| {ref}`Citing Research Objects<cm-citable-cite>` | Helpful | Beginner | Information about how to cite research objects |

(cm-dif-articles-summary)=
## Summary
This chapter describes the new types of articles born out of the growth of open research and the expansion in publishing all aspects of the research lifecycle. Each subchapter gives an overview of an article type.

Chapters included are:

* Data Papers 
* Methods Papers
* Micropublishing
* Software Papers
* Registered Reports

(cm-dif-articles-motivation)=
## Motivation and Background
Traditionally journal publications have been in the format of stand alone research articles, often with a format of abstract, introduction, methods, results and discussion sections.

This format was often quite limiting and meant things like datasets, software (scripts, code, apps, tools) and methods were often squeezed into research articles with little detail due to word limits, or hidden in supplementary material or not included at all. 

> 

Reviewer: Researchers therefore have often deposited these research objects in a repository to make them usable and discoverable by others. Depositing them with rich metadata is best practice and you can find out more about how to do that in our [Making Research Objects Citable chapter](https://the-turing-way.netlify.app/communication/citable.html).

> 

Author: ```suggestion
Researchers therefore have often deposited these research objects in a repository to make them usable and discoverable by others. Depositing them with rich metadata is best practice and you can find out more about how to do that in our [Making Research Objects Citable chapter](https://the-turing-way.netlify.app/communication/citable.html).
```

> This has led to the development of new article types, which allows all research outputs produced during the research lifecycle to be published in their own right and linked to the final interpretations and conclusions of a research project. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There also has been the development of new article types, which allows all deposited research outputs produced during the research lifecycle to be publications in their own right and further linked to the final interpretations and conclusions of a research project. 
```

The linking of these articles is one way to fully publish a reproducible research project. 

> Having separate article types for these outputs allows the people involved, such as research software engineers, data stewards, to receive sufficient credit and impact for their work, particularly as publications are still the main currency by which researchers are evaluated.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Having separate article types for these outputs allows the people involved, such as research software engineers, and data stewards, to receive sufficient credit and impact for their work, particularly as publications are still the main currency by which researchers are evaluated.
```

> Having separate article types for these outputs allows the people involved (such as research software engineers, data stewards) to receive sufficient credit and impact for their work, particularly as publications are still the main currency by which researchers are evaluated.

Author: ```suggestion
Having separate article types for these outputs allows the people involved, such as research software engineers, data stewards, to receive sufficient credit and impact for their work, particularly as publications are still the main currency by which researchers are evaluated.
```

> Having separate article types for these outputs allows the people involved, such as research software engineers, data stewards, to receive sufficient credit and impact for their work, particularly as publications are still the main currency by which researchers are evaluated.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Having separate article types for these outputs allows the people involved, such as research software engineers, data stewards, to receive sufficient credit, impact and visibility for their work, particularly as publications are still the main currency by which researchers are evaluated.
```

Reviewer 2: What about (very slight tweaks):

Having separate article types for these outputs allows the people involved, such as research software engineers and data stewards, to receive sufficient credit, attribution and visibility for their contributions to the work, particularly as publications are still the main currency by which researchers are evaluated.

Theses articles are also important for the sustainability, reproducibility and openness of these research outputs as writing detailed publications means greater care and attention is directed at describing and explaining these outputs and in turn makes these outputs more FAIR (findable, accessible, interoperable and reusable).

> Note: in this chapter and subchapter we are using the phrase article and paper interchangeably. 

Reviewer 2: Really nitpicky, but I think there are now two spaces between "word" and " 'article' "

```{figure} ../figures/publishing-diff-articles.jpg
---
height: 500px
name: publishing different articles types
alt: A person dressed in a lab coat with many arms holding different types of publications such as social media posts, data paper and software papers.
---
_The Turing Way_ project illustration by Scriberia. Used under a CC-BY 4.0 licence. DOI: [10.5281/zenodo.3332807](https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.3332807).
```

(cm-dif-articles-prerequisites)=
## Prerequisites

| Prerequisite | Importance | Skill Level | Notes |
| -------------|----------|------|----|
| {ref}`Open Research <rr-open>` | Helpful | Beginner | Of particular relevance is the chapter on Open Access |
| {ref}`Data Articles<rr-rdm-article>` | Helpful | Beginner | Gives an overview of where to publish data articles |
| {ref}`Citing Research Objects<cm-citable-cite>` | Helpful | Beginner | Information about how to cite research objects |

(cm-dif-articles-summary)=
## Summary
This chapter describes the new types of articles born out of the growth of open research and the expansion in publishing all aspects of the research lifecycle. Each subchapter gives an overview of an article type.

> Chapters included are:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Subchapters included are:
```
